Code of the Rings

https://www.codingame.com/multiplayer/optimization/code-of-the-rings

STATEMENT
In this optimization programming game, you have to write a program that generates a sequence of instructions for an automaton. This "program" generated by your solution uses a language that you will discover on the spot, and has to be the shortest possible. You will need to take advantage of the different aspects of the language, such as loops, to optimize the length of your output.

The goal is not about optimizing the number of steps the automaton will take.

The Goal
The aim of this game is to help Blub escape a forest by sending him a sequence of instructions that will make him spell out a given sentence using magic stones.

For this question, you will be asked to output a single line as a solution. Your rank will be evaluated by the length of your output, which you will want to minimize.

Rules
Your program receives a string of uppercase characters – the magic phrase Blub needs to spell out – and must output a sequence of characters, each representing an action for Blub to perform.
These actions will have Blub move around in the forest, interacting with the different stones.

The forest Blub is trapped works as follows:
The forest contains 30 zones.
Blub can move left and right through the zones which are all aligned. He does this when he receives a less-than < or greater-than > sign.
The last zone is connected to the first zone, effectively creating a looping area.
Each zone contains a magic stone upon which is inscribed a rune with which Blub can interact.

Runes work as follows:
Every rune is represented by a letter of the alphabet (A-Z) or an empty space.
All runes start out as a space.
Blub can change the value of the letter on the rune by rolling back and forth through the possibilities. He does this when he receives a plus + or minus - character.
The letter after Z is space. The letter after space is A.
Blub can trigger a rune. This will add the displayed letter to the phrase he is spelling out. He does this when he receives a dot . character.
One rune can be triggered several times.
You lose if:
At the end of Blub's move sequence, the wrong message is displayed.
Blub performs 4000 moves or more in the forest.
You do not supply Blub with a valid sequence of actions.
 
Victory Conditions
You win if the magic phrase is spelled out correctly at the end of Blub's move sequence.

Expert Rules
For expert CodinGamers, we've added the loops! You can skip this section until you've really tried the rest.

These actions are also available:
[: If the current rune contains a space, skip all instructions up to the matching closing bracket ], otherwise continue normally.
]: If the current rune contains a space, continue normally, otherwise perform the instructions starting from the matching opening bracket [.
This makes it possible to have Blub perform more actions with less characters for your program to output.

For example, AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA (A x26) can be achieved with a simple
+.......................... as well as with +>-[<.>-].

Experiment with different techniques, if you have the guts!

Example

If Blub needs to spell out the word AB, you could give him the instructions +.+.. He will:
Make the first rune go from space to A.
Trigger the A.
Make rune go from A to B.
Trigger the B.
Alternatively, you could also give him the instructions +.>++. to achieve the same result. Experiment with different tactics!

Note
Don’t forget to run the tests by launching them from the “Test cases” window. You do not have to pass all tests to enter the leaderboard. Each test you pass will earn you some points (for example 10%).

Warning: the tests provided are similar to the validation tests used to compute the final score but remain different. This is a “harcoding” prevention mechanism. Harcoded solutions will not get any points.

Your score is computed from the number of characters you send to Blub and only if the test case is passed.

Do not hesitate to switch to debug mode () if you get stuck.

Game Input
The program must first read the initialization data from standard input. Then, provide to the standard output one line with all of Blub's instructions.

Input
Line 1: one string magicPhrase, the message you must help Blub to spell out.

Output
A single line containing a valid sequence of actions for Blub.

Here are the available actions you can send to Blub:
>: Blub moves one zone to the right.
<: Blub moves one zone to the left.
+: Blub rolls the letter on the rune of the zone he is in one letter along the alphabet.
-: Blub rolls the letter on the rune of the zone he is in one letter back through the alphabet.
.: Blub triggers the rune to add its letter to the magic phrase.

Constraints
magicPhrase contains between 1 and 500 characters.
magicPhrase is composed of uppercase letters (A-Z) and spaces.
Allotted response time to output is ≤ 2 seconds.

Tags
Pattern recognition, Optimization
